hi everyone Pedro I work for protocol
labs I'm the captain of this kind of new
group which is called dynamic data and
capabilities working group so we're on
github and our our main purpose is to
research do research and development of
the building blocks that will enable the
creation of the centralized apps so
researching things like stuff for
dynamic data like charities or identity
access control all the primitives that
you need to build decentralized
applications on top of IP FS so
currently there's a bunch of current
endeavors are more engineering focused
so JavaScript libraries for charities
pierced our platform peer pad will I
think we'll what recipe pads
later one also mentioned peer pads so
these are all all charity related
there's a bunch of open source that that
we have published so connectors for
well-known charity libraries in
JavaScript so and also mainly the work
that we are doing is JavaScript bias
because we want to enable
decentralized web applications to be
developed so you'll see a lot of
JavaScript here so stuff that guarantees
encryption at rest for operation by
charities peers charities the library
for causal oppas charities they're based
on immutable data so it kind of fits
well in the ipfs model so transport for
for that through the a BFS network in
implementation of Delta's charities all
of these are listed on the dynamic data
and capabilities working group websites
if you want to check it out also one has
mentioned peer pads
so this is like one of the one of the
products that well we want to create
more of these products to test all the
things that we are building underneath
pier pad is is the first and and as an
engineer we have a bunch of challenges
that that I would like to share with you
I like to share as Evan mentioned most
well I have a bunch of them in the
working group issues repo if you are
interested in identity or access control
or see oddities you can head there and
take a look at them and perhaps chime in
and give your insights on on some of
these we have like a long list of
discussions on some of them this is
where it met realizes the the things
that were Ness
that we're going to develop next there
are three dilemma domains as I mentioned
for this group so it's dynamic data
identity and access control right now
we're still more focused on dynamic data
so creating strong eventual consistency
primitives for real-time collaborative
web apps that are in loosely connected
peer-to-peer networks so to make a
portfolio of charities to make them
available to developers here the main
challenges are several so it could be
fastboot garbage collection persistence
replication performance network
efficiency the persistence replication
performance a network efficiency we're
solving it that BFS layer and all the
rest is it's kind of dependent on
researching on the researcher so I mean
the engineer are not a researcher I'm
just putting this these problems out to
the research community so I'm going to
describe the two RFPs the problems
behind it to RFPs that we have published
so this is the first boot or ketchup
problem
so operation based charities work by
creating an operation log that will be
replicated and so basically that's it so
CMR duties so commit --iv replicated
data types use this this pulls the
problem for how does an and a new fresh
node how is the new fresh now be able to
join the group you know in a way that
does not require to synchronize the
whole operation log in this so if for
long-running documents this operational
can be can can be quite big and so the
conversions time is is proportional to
the size of this log so is there a way
to do snapshotting consistently sapna
snapshotting how can we achieve this
should we use Delta charities instead
and with the downsides of losing the
implicit history that we have on
operation by Sierra T's all the
authorship that that we can derive from
that history that's one problem the
other problem is local garbage
collection so how does the replica
safely compact the the history is this
two are kind of related to problems that
are kind of related so we've bundled
that up into an OPA problem statement
that's optimized storage and convergence
time in causal commodities so I
encourage you to take a look at it at
that so and so there's an Associated RFP
as Evan described the other one is more
is related to dynamic dilemmas but more
about access control of eventual
virtually consistent data so how do we
create a cryptographic ACL type that
Garrett's still guarantee strong
eventual consistency when applied to
charity so I think this is a
a heart problem because if you think
that you can have like offline nodes
that are performing changes they think
they have the capability but now the
capability has been revoked by by some
other node that has that capability of
revoking and still when I come up when
I'm connected to the network again I
still have a bunch of operations that I
want to send to the other nodes either
the other all the other nodes know that
I don't have the capability and so that
that's that's okay no no no other node
will accept those operations or if this
is not they are not consistent about
about that knowledge they will some of
them will take the operation and the
others may not accept that operation so
they have different views on the ACL at
a certain time so this is this is
something that that I think we I'd like
to have more insight on from the
research community so there's an again
there's a no problem statement
describing this and there's an
Associated RFP that describes this then
we have a bunch of other problems that I
could I could go on but I won't I don't
have the time so if you want to chat
about this letter or head out to these
arab repos and the research repos repo
in protocol that evan shows has this RF
peace thank you
[Applause]